# Google Oauth and OpenID Services

Oauth and OpenID are service that help systems to share information about an specific user in a secure way.  

> First Step get User permission

To do this you have to redirect the user to google in a consernt page. In this page, users can allow google to share information to your service.

You need to do that first: A Google Credential for your project.
To get that you need to go to <https://console.cloud.google.com/apis> and register your app and also register your endpoints that are going to send the request to google and another that is going to recieve the response of google.

example

`
  /google  GET // Redirect the User to google.
  /google/callback GET // Get the unique User Code from Google
`

> Exchange User Unique Code for Access Token

The User Unique Code is a code generated by google, that your app can use to tell google.  
`
  Your System: Hey This user allow me to get this data, this is the secret code that he or she give me. Can you let me in?    
  Google: Okey, Let me check is it correct?     
  ...     
  Google: Okey, you can access this data using this accessToken and you only gonna access these endpoint [scope]. And if your access token expire you get another one sending the refresh token     
`

> Use the accessToken to get user data.

Now you got the accessTokken you can request for the data that you need. Remenber this accessToken is only allow to access the specific information that you ask to your users.

You can practice with the [Google Api Playground](https://developers.google.com/oauthplayground/)

## Author
[**Adrison Gomez**](https://github.com/Ad0197)  
FullStack JavaScript Dev
